Tutorial
========

Usage
-----

This section describes how to write an event sourced application.

This example follows the layered architecture: application, domain, and
infrastructure.

To create a working program, you can copy and paste the following code
snippets into a single Python file. The code snippets in this section
have been tested. Please feel free to experiment by making variations.

If you are using a Python virtualenv, please check that your virtualenv
is activated before installing the library and running your program.

Install the library with the 'sqlalchemy' and 'crypto' options.

::

    pip install eventsourcing[sqlalchemy,crypto]

Step 1: Domain model
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Let's start with the domain model. Because the state of an event sourced
application is determined by a sequence of events, we need to define
some events.

Domain events
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

For the sake of simplicity in this example, let's assume things in our
domain can be "created", "changed", and "discarded". With that in mind,
let's define some domain event classes.

In the example below, the common attributes of a domain event, such as
the entity ID and version, and the timestamp of the event, have been
pulled up to a layer supertype called ``DomainEvent``.

.. code:: python

    import time

    class DomainEvent(object):
        """Layer supertype."""

        def __init__(self, entity_id, entity_version, timestamp=None, **kwargs):
            self.entity_id = entity_id
            self.entity_version = entity_version
            self.timestamp = timestamp or time.time()
            self.__dict__.update(kwargs)


    class Created(DomainEvent):
        """Published when an entity is created."""
        def __init__(self, **kwargs):
            super(Created, self).__init__(entity_version=0, **kwargs)

        
    class ValueChanged(DomainEvent):
        """Published when an attribute value is changed."""
        def __init__(self, name, value, **kwargs):
            super(ValueChanged, self).__init__(**kwargs)
            self.name = name
            self.value = value

        
    class Discarded(DomainEvent):
        """Published when an entity is discarded."""

Please note, the domain event classes above do not depend on the
library. The library does however contain a collection of different
kinds of domain event classes that you can use in your models, for
example see ``AggregateEvent``. The domain event classes in the library
are slightly more sophisticated than the code in this example.

Domain entity
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Now, let's use the event classes above to define an "example" entity.

The ``Example`` entity class below has an entity ID, a version number,
and a timestamp. It also has a property ``foo``, and a ``discard()``
method to use when the entity is discarded. The factory method
``create_new_example()`` can be used to create new entities.

All the methods follow a similar pattern. They construct an event that
represents the result of the operation. They use a "mutator function"
function ``mutate()`` to apply the event to the entity. And they
"publish" the event for the benefit of any subscribers.

When replaying a sequence of events, a "mutator function" is used to
apply an event to an initial state. For the sake of simplicity in this
example, we'll use an if-else block that can handle the different types
of events.

.. code:: python

    import uuid

    from eventsourcing.domain.model.events import publish


    class Example(object):
        """Example domain entity."""
        def __init__(self, entity_id, entity_version=0, foo='', timestamp=None):
            self._id = entity_id
            self._version = entity_version
            self._is_discarded = False
            self._created_on = timestamp
            self._last_modified_on = timestamp
            self._foo = foo

        @property
        def id(self):
            return self._id

        @property
        def version(self):
            return self._version

        @property
        def is_discarded(self):
            return self._is_discarded

        @property
        def created_on(self):
            return self._created_on

        @property
        def last_modified_on(self):
            return self._last_modified_on

        @property
        def foo(self):
            return self._foo
        
        @foo.setter
        def foo(self, value):
            assert not self._is_discarded    
            # Instantiate a domain event.
            event = ValueChanged(
                entity_id=self.id,
                entity_version=self.version,
                name='foo',
                value=value,
            )
            # Apply the event to self.
            mutate(self, event)
            # Publish the event for others.
            publish(event)

        def discard(self):
            assert not self._is_discarded
            # Instantiate a domain event.
            event = Discarded(entity_id=self.id, entity_version=self.version)
            # Apply the event to self.
            mutate(self, event)
            # Publish the event for others.
            publish(event)


    def create_new_example(foo):
        """Factory method for Example entities."""

        # Create an entity ID.
        entity_id = uuid.uuid4()
        # Instantiate a domain event.
        event = Created(entity_id=entity_id, foo=foo)
        # Mutate the event to construct the entity.
        entity = mutate(None, event)
        # Publish the event for others.
        publish(event=event)
        # Return the new entity.
        return entity


    def mutate(entity, event):
        """Mutator function for Example entities."""

        # Handle "created" events by instantiating the entity class.
        if isinstance(event, Created):
            entity = Example(**event.__dict__)
            entity._version += 1
            return entity
            
        # Handle "value changed" events by setting the named value.
        elif isinstance(event, ValueChanged):
            assert not entity.is_discarded
            setattr(entity, '_' + event.name, event.value)
            entity._version += 1
            entity._last_modified_on = event.timestamp
            return entity
            
        # Handle "discarded" events by returning 'None'.
        elif isinstance(event, Discarded):
            assert not entity.is_discarded
            entity._version += 1
            entity._is_discarded = True
            return None
        else:
            raise NotImplementedError(type(event))

Apart from using the library's ``publish()`` function, the example
entity class does not depend on the library. It doesn't inherit from a
"magical" entity base class. It just publishes events that it has
applied to itself. The library does however contain domain entity
classes that you can use to build your domain model. For example see the
``TimestampedVersionedEntity`` class, which is also a timestamped,
versioned entity. The library classes are slightly more refined than the
code in this example.

Run the code
^^^^^^^^^^^^

With this stand-alone code, we can create a new example entity object.
We can update its property ``foo``, and we can discard the entity using
the ``discard()`` method. Let's firstly subscribe to receive the events
that will be published, so we can see what happened.

.. code:: python

    from eventsourcing.domain.model.events import subscribe

    # A list of received events.
    received_events = []

    # Subscribe to receive published events.
    subscribe(lambda e: received_events.append(e))

    # Create a new entity using the factory.
    entity1 = create_new_example(foo='bar1')

    # Check the entity has an ID.
    assert entity1.id

    # Check the entity has a version number.
    assert entity1.version == 1

    # Check the received events.
    assert len(received_events) == 1, received_events
    assert isinstance(received_events[0], Created)
    assert received_events[0].entity_id == entity1.id
    assert received_events[0].entity_version == 0
    assert received_events[0].foo == 'bar1'

    # Check the value of property 'foo'.
    assert entity1.foo == 'bar1'

    # Update property 'foo'.
    entity1.foo = 'bar2'

    # Check the new value of 'foo'.
    assert entity1.foo == 'bar2'

    # Check the version number has increased.
    assert entity1.version == 2

    # Check the received events.
    assert len(received_events) == 2, received_events
    assert isinstance(received_events[1], ValueChanged)
    assert received_events[1].entity_version == 1
    assert received_events[1].name == 'foo'
    assert received_events[1].value == 'bar2'

Step 2: Infrastructure
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Since the application state is determined by a sequence of events, the
events of the application must somehow be stored, and the entities
somehow retrieved.

Database table
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Let's start by setting up a simple database. We can use SQLAlchemy to
define a database table that stores integer-sequenced items.

.. code:: python

    from sqlalchemy.ext.declarative.api import declarative_base
    from sqlalchemy.sql.schema import Column, Sequence, UniqueConstraint
    from sqlalchemy.sql.sqltypes import BigInteger, Integer, String, Text
    from sqlalchemy_utils import UUIDType

    Base = declarative_base()


    class SequencedItemTable(Base):
        __tablename__ = 'sequenced_items'

        id = Column(Integer(), Sequence('integer_sequened_item_id_seq'), primary_key=True)

        # Sequence ID (e.g. an entity or aggregate ID).
        sequence_id = Column(UUIDType(), index=True)

        # Position (index) of item in sequence.
        position = Column(BigInteger(), index=True)

        # Topic of the item (e.g. path to domain event class).
        topic = Column(String(255))

        # State of the item (serialized dict, possibly encrypted).
        data = Column(Text())

        # Unique constraint.
        __table_args__ = UniqueConstraint('sequence_id', 'position',
                                          name='integer_sequenced_item_uc'),

Now create the database table. The SQLAlchemy objects can be adapted
with a ``Datastore`` from the library, which provides a common interface
for the operations ``setup_connection()`` and ``setup_tables()``.

.. code:: python

    from eventsourcing.infrastructure.sqlalchemy.datastore import SQLAlchemySettings, SQLAlchemyDatastore

    datastore = SQLAlchemyDatastore(
        base=Base,
        settings=SQLAlchemySettings(uri='sqlite:///:memory:'),
        tables=(SequencedItemTable,),
    )

    datastore.setup_connection()
    datastore.setup_tables()

This example uses an SQLite in memory relational database. You can
change ``uri`` to any valid connection string. Here are some example
connection strings: for an SQLite file; for a PostgreSQL database; and
for a MySQL database. See SQLAlchemy's create\_engine() documentation
for details.

::

    sqlite:////tmp/mydatabase

    postgresql://scott:tiger@localhost:5432/mydatabase

    mysql://scott:tiger@hostname/dbname

Event store
^^^^^^^^^^^

To support different kinds of sequences, and to allow for different
schemas for storing events, the event store has been factored to use a
"sequenced item mapper" to map domain events to sequenced items, and an
"active record strategy" to map between sequenced items and a database
table. The details have been made explicit so they can be easily
replaced.

The sequenced item mapper gets values from the domain event and derives
the values of sequenced item fields. The active record strategy uses an
active record class to access a database table.

Hence, by passing in an alternative active record class to the active
record strategy it is possible to use different column or field types in
the database (e.g. a smaller or larger size of integer for version
numbers). By using a different active record strategy class altogether,
it is possible to use a different database management system.

By using an alternative sequenced item class, it is possible to use
alternative field names in the schema, for example so the database
records look like "stored events" rather than "sequenced items". And it
is possible to extend or replace the schema by extending or replacing
the sequenced item mapper. It is also possible to use a custom event
store.

To keep things simple, let's use the library's classes without any
customizations.

.. code:: python

    from eventsourcing.infrastructure.eventstore import EventStore
    from eventsourcing.infrastructure.sqlalchemy.activerecords import SQLAlchemyActiveRecordStrategy
    from eventsourcing.infrastructure.sequenceditem import SequencedItem
    from eventsourcing.infrastructure.sequenceditemmapper import SequencedItemMapper

    active_record_strategy = SQLAlchemyActiveRecordStrategy(
        datastore=datastore,
        active_record_class=SequencedItemTable,
        sequenced_item_class=SequencedItem,
    )

    sequenced_item_mapper = SequencedItemMapper(
        sequenced_item_class=SequencedItem,
        event_sequence_id_attr='entity_id',
        event_position_attr='entity_version',
    )

    event_store = EventStore(
        active_record_strategy=active_record_strategy,
        sequenced_item_mapper=sequenced_item_mapper
    )

Entity repository
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

It is common pattern to retrieve entities from a repository. An event
sourced repository for the ``example`` entity class can be constructed
directly using the ``EventSourcedRepository`` library class. The
repository is given the mutator function ``mutate()`` and the event
store, so that it can make an event player.

.. code:: python

    from eventsourcing.infrastructure.eventsourcedrepository import EventSourcedRepository

    example_repository = EventSourcedRepository(
        event_store=event_store,
        mutator=mutate,
    )

Run the code
^^^^^^^^^^^^

Now, let's firstly write the events we received earlier into the event
store.

.. code:: python


    # Put each received event into the event store.
    for event in received_events:
        event_store.append(event)

    # Check the events exist in the event store.
    stored_events = event_store.get_domain_events(entity1.id)
    assert len(stored_events) == 2, (received_events, stored_events)

Now the entity can now be retrieved from the repository, using its
dictionary-like interface.

.. code:: python

    retrieved_entity = example_repository[entity1.id]
    assert retrieved_entity.foo == 'bar2'

To keep things grounded, remember that we can always get the sequenced
items directly from the active record strategy. A sequenced item is
tuple containing a serialised representation of the domain event. In the
library, a ``SequencedItem`` is a Python tuple with four fields:
``sequence_id``, ``position``, ``topic``, and ``data``. By default, an
event's ``entity_id`` attribute is mapped to the ``sequence_id`` field,
and the event's ``entity_version`` attribute is mapped to the
``position`` field. The ``topic`` field of a sequenced item is used to
identify the event class, and the ``data`` field represents the state of
the event (a JSON string).

.. code:: python

    sequenced_items = event_store.active_record_strategy.get_items(entity1.id)

    assert len(sequenced_items) == 2

    assert sequenced_items[0].sequence_id == entity1.id
    assert sequenced_items[0].position == 0
    assert 'Created' in sequenced_items[0].topic
    assert 'bar1' in sequenced_items[0].data

    assert sequenced_items[1].sequence_id == entity1.id
    assert sequenced_items[1].position == 1
    assert 'ValueChanged' in sequenced_items[1].topic
    assert 'bar2' in sequenced_items[1].data

Similar to the support for storing events in SQLAlchemy, there are
classes in the library for Cassandra. Support for other databases is
forthcoming.

Step 3: Application
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Although we can do everything at the module level, an application object
brings things together.

The application has an event store, and can have entity repositories.

Most importantly, the application has a persistence policy. The
persistence policy firstly subscribes to receive events when they are
published, and it uses the event store to store all the events that it
receives.

As a convenience, it is useful to make the application function as a
Python context manager, so that the application can close the
persistence policy, unsubscribing itself from receiving further domain
events.

.. code:: python

    from eventsourcing.application.policies import PersistencePolicy

    class Application(object):

        def __init__(self, datastore):
            self.event_store = EventStore(
                active_record_strategy=SQLAlchemyActiveRecordStrategy(
                    datastore=datastore,
                    active_record_class=SequencedItemTable,
                    sequenced_item_class=SequencedItem,
                ),
                sequenced_item_mapper=SequencedItemMapper(
                    sequenced_item_class=SequencedItem,
                    event_sequence_id_attr='entity_id',
                    event_position_attr='entity_version',
                )
            )
            self.example_repository = EventSourcedRepository(
                event_store=self.event_store,
                mutator=mutate,
            )
            self.persistence_policy = PersistencePolicy(self.event_store)
            
        def create_example(self, foo):
            return create_new_example(foo=foo)
            
        def close(self):
            self.persistence_policy.close()

        def __enter__(self):
            return self
            
        def __exit__(self, exc_type, exc_val, exc_tb):
            self.close()

After instantiating the application, we can create more example entities
and expect they will be immediately available in the repository.

Please note, a discarded entity can not be retrieved from the
repository. The repository's dictionary-like interface will raise a
Python ``KeyError`` exception instead of returning an entity.

.. code:: python

    with Application(datastore) as app:

        entity2 = app.create_example(foo='bar3')
        
        assert entity2.id in app.example_repository
        
        assert app.example_repository[entity2.id].foo == 'bar3'
        
        entity2.foo = 'bar4'
        
        assert app.example_repository[entity2.id].foo == 'bar4'

        # Discard the entity.    
        entity2.discard()
        assert entity2.id not in app.example_repository
        
        try:
            app.example_repository[entity2.id]
        except KeyError:
            pass
        else:
            raise Exception('KeyError was not raised')

Congratulations. You have created yourself an event sourced application.

A slightly more developed example application can be found in the
library module ``eventsourcing.example.application``.

Step 4: Application-level encryption
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To enable encryption, pass in a cipher strategy object when constructing
the sequenced item mapper, and set ``always_encrypt`` to a True value.

.. code:: python

    class EncryptedApplication(object):

        def __init__(self, datastore, cipher):
            self.event_store = EventStore(
                active_record_strategy=SQLAlchemyActiveRecordStrategy(
                    datastore=datastore,
                    active_record_class=SequencedItemTable,
                    sequenced_item_class=SequencedItem,
                ),
                sequenced_item_mapper=SequencedItemMapper(
                    sequenced_item_class=SequencedItem,
                    event_sequence_id_attr='entity_id',
                    event_position_attr='entity_version',
                    always_encrypt=True,
                    cipher=cipher,
                )
            )
            self.example_repository = EventSourcedRepository(
                event_store=self.event_store,
                mutator=mutate,
            )
            self.persistence_policy = PersistencePolicy(self.event_store)
            
        def create_example(self, foo):
            return create_new_example(foo=foo)
            
        def close(self):
            self.persistence_policy.close()

        def __enter__(self):
            return self
            
        def __exit__(self, exc_type, exc_val, exc_tb):
            self.close()

You can use the AES cipher strategy provided by this library.
Alternatively, you can craft your own cipher strategy object.

Event attribute values are encrypted inside the application before they
are mapped to the database. The values are decrypted before domain
events are replayed.

.. code:: python

    from eventsourcing.domain.services.aes_cipher import AESCipher

    aes_key = '0123456789abcdef'

    with EncryptedApplication(datastore, cipher=AESCipher(aes_key)) as app:

        entity3 = app.create_example(foo='secret info')

        # Without encryption, application state is visible in the database.
        item1 = app.event_store.active_record_strategy.get_item(entity1.id, 0)
        assert 'bar1' in item1.data
        
        # With encryption enabled, application state is not visible in the database. 
        item2 = app.event_store.active_record_strategy.get_item(entity3.id, 0)
        assert 'secret info' not in item2.data
        
        # Events are decrypted inside the application.
        retrieved_entity = app.example_repository[entity3.id]
        assert 'secret info' in retrieved_entity.foo    

Step 5: Optimistic concurrency control
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

With the application above, because of the unique constraint on the
SQLAlchemy table, it isn't possible to branch the evolution of an entity
and store two events at the same version.

Hence, if the entity you are working on has been updated elsewhere, an
attempt to update your object will raise a concurrency exception.

.. code:: python

    from eventsourcing.exceptions import ConcurrencyError

    with Application(datastore) as app:

        a = app.example_repository[entity1.id]
        b = app.example_repository[entity1.id]
        
        # Change the entity using instance 'a'.
        a.foo = 'bar6'
        
        # Because 'a' has been changed since 'b' was obtained,
        # 'b' cannot be updated unless it is firstly refreshed.
        try:
            b.foo = 'bar7'
        except ConcurrencyError:
            pass
        else:
            raise Exception("Failed to control concurrency of 'b'.")
          
        # Refresh object 'b', so that 'b' has the current state of the entity.
        b = app.example_repository[entity1.id]
        assert b.foo == 'bar6'

        # Changing the entity using instance 'b' now works because 'b' is up to date.
        b.foo = 'bar7'    
        assert app.example_repository[entity1.id].foo == 'bar7'
        
        # Now 'a' does not have the current state of the entity, and cannot be changed.
        try:
            a.foo = 'bar8'
        except ConcurrencyError:
            pass
        else:
            raise Exception("Failed to control concurrency of 'a'.")

Step 6: Alternative database schema
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Let's say we want the database table to look like stored events, rather
than sequenced items.

It's easy to do. Just define a new sequenced item class, e.g.
``StoredEvent`` below.

.. code:: python

    from collections import namedtuple

    StoredEvent = namedtuple('StoredEvent', ['aggregate_id', 'aggregate_version', 'event_type', 'state'])

Then define a suitable active record class.

.. code:: python

    class StoredEventTable(Base):
        # Explicit table name.
        __tablename__ = 'stored_events'

        # Unique constraint.
        __table_args__ = UniqueConstraint('aggregate_id', 'aggregate_version', name='stored_events_uc'),

        # Primary key.
        id = Column(Integer, Sequence('stored_event_id_seq'), primary_key=True)

        # Sequence ID (e.g. an entity or aggregate ID).
        aggregate_id = Column(UUIDType(), index=True)

        # Position (timestamp) of item in sequence.
        aggregate_version = Column(BigInteger(), index=True)

        # Type of the event (class name).
        event_type = Column(String(100))

        # State of the item (serialized dict, possibly encrypted).
        state = Column(Text())

Then redefine the application class to use the two new classes.

.. code:: python

    class Application(object):
        def __init__(self, datastore):
            self.event_store = EventStore(
                active_record_strategy=SQLAlchemyActiveRecordStrategy(
                    datastore=datastore,
                    active_record_class=StoredEventTable,
                    sequenced_item_class=StoredEvent,
                ),
                sequenced_item_mapper=SequencedItemMapper(
                    sequenced_item_class=StoredEvent,
                    event_sequence_id_attr='entity_id',
                    event_position_attr='entity_version',
                )
            )
            self.example_repository = EventSourcedRepository(
                event_store=self.event_store,
                mutator=mutate,
            )
            self.persistence_policy = PersistencePolicy(self.event_store)
            
        def create_example(self, foo):
            return create_new_example(foo=foo)
            
        def close(self):
            self.persistence_policy.close()

        def __enter__(self):
            return self
            
        def __exit__(self, exc_type, exc_val, exc_tb):
            self.close()

Set up the database again.

.. code:: python

    datastore = SQLAlchemyDatastore(
        base=Base,
        settings=SQLAlchemySettings(uri='sqlite:///:memory:'),
        tables=(StoredEventTable,),
    )

    datastore.setup_connection()
    datastore.setup_tables()

Then you can use the application as before.

.. code:: python

    with Application(datastore) as app:

        entity4 = app.create_example(foo='bar9')
        
        assert entity4.id in app.example_repository
        
        assert app.example_repository[entity4.id].foo == 'bar9'
        
        entity4.foo = 'bar10'
        
        assert app.example_repository[entity4.id].foo == 'bar10'

        # Discard the entity.    
        entity4.discard()
        assert entity4.id not in app.example_repository
        
        try:
            app.example_repository[entity4.id]
        except KeyError:
            pass
        else:
            raise Exception('KeyError was not raised')

Step 7: Aggregates in domain driven design
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Let's say we want to separate the sequence of events from entities, and
instead have an aggregate that controls a set of entities.

We can define some "aggregate events" which have ``aggregate_id`` and
``aggregate_version``. And we can rework the entity class to function as
a root entity of the aggregate.

In the example below, the aggregate class has a list of pending events,
and a ``save()`` method that publishes all pending events. The other
operations append events to the list of pending events, rather than
publishing them individually.

The library supports appending multiple events to the event store in a
single atomic transaction.

The entity factory is now a method of the aggregate, and the aggregate's
mutator is capable of mutating the aggregate's entities.

.. code:: python

    class AggregateEvent(object):
        """Layer supertype."""

        def __init__(self, aggregate_id, aggregate_version, timestamp=None, **kwargs):
            self.aggregate_id = aggregate_id
            self.aggregate_version = aggregate_version
            self.timestamp = timestamp or time.time()
            self.__dict__.update(kwargs)


    class AggregateCreated(AggregateEvent):
        """Published when an aggregate is created."""
        def __init__(self, aggregate_version=0, **kwargs):
            super(AggregateCreated, self).__init__(aggregate_version=aggregate_version, **kwargs)


    class EntityCreated(AggregateEvent):
        """Published when an entity is created."""
        def __init__(self, entity_id, **kwargs):
            super(EntityCreated, self).__init__(entity_id=entity_id, **kwargs)


    class AggregateDiscarded(AggregateEvent):
        """Published when an aggregate is discarded."""
        def __init__(self, **kwargs):
            super(AggregateDiscarded, self).__init__(**kwargs)


    class ExampleAggregateRoot():
        """Example root entity."""
        def __init__(self, aggregate_id, aggregate_version=0, timestamp=None):
            self._id = aggregate_id
            self._version = aggregate_version
            self._is_discarded = False
            self._created_on = timestamp
            self._last_modified_on = timestamp
            self._pending_events = []
            self._entities = {}

        @property
        def id(self):
            return self._id

        @property
        def version(self):
            return self._version

        @property
        def is_discarded(self):
            return self._is_discarded

        @property
        def created_on(self):
            return self._created_on

        @property
        def last_modified_on(self):
            return self._last_modified_on

        def count_entities(self):
            return len(self._entities)
            
        def create_new_entity(self):
            assert not self._is_discarded
            event = EntityCreated(
                entity_id=uuid.uuid4(),
                aggregate_id=self.id,
                aggregate_version=self.version,
            )
            mutate(self, event)
            self._pending_events.append(event)

        def discard(self):
            assert not self._is_discarded
            event = AggregateDiscarded(aggregate_id=self.id, aggregate_version=self.version)
            mutate(self, event)
            self._pending_events.append(event)
            
        def save(self):
            publish(self._pending_events[:])
            self._pending_events = []


    def mutate(aggregate, event):
        """Mutator function for example aggregate root."""

        # Handle "created" events by instantiating the aggregate class.
        if isinstance(event, AggregateCreated):
            aggregate = ExampleAggregateRoot(**event.__dict__)
            aggregate._version += 1
            return aggregate
            
        # Handle "entity created" events by adding a new entity to the aggregate's dict of entities.
        elif isinstance(event, EntityCreated):
            assert not aggregate.is_discarded
            entity = Example(entity_id=event.entity_id)
            aggregate._entities[entity.id] = entity
            aggregate._version += 1
            aggregate._last_modified_on = event.timestamp
            return aggregate
            
        # Handle "discarded" events by returning 'None'.
        elif isinstance(event, AggregateDiscarded):
            assert not aggregate.is_discarded
            aggregate._version += 1
            aggregate._is_discarded = True
            return None
        else:
            raise NotImplementedError(type(event))


    class DDDApplication(object):
        def __init__(self, datastore):
            self.event_store = EventStore(
                active_record_strategy=SQLAlchemyActiveRecordStrategy(
                    datastore=datastore,
                    active_record_class=StoredEventTable,
                    sequenced_item_class=StoredEvent,
                ),
                sequenced_item_mapper=SequencedItemMapper(
                    sequenced_item_class=StoredEvent,
                    event_sequence_id_attr='aggregate_id',
                    event_position_attr='aggregate_version',
                )
            )
            self.aggregate_repository = EventSourcedRepository(
                event_store=self.event_store,
                mutator=mutate,
            )
            self.persistence_policy = PersistencePolicy(self.event_store)
            
        def create_example_aggregate(self):
            event = AggregateCreated(aggregate_id=uuid.uuid4())
            aggregate = mutate(aggregate=None, event=event)
            aggregate._pending_events.append(event)
            return aggregate
            
        def close(self):
            self.persistence_policy.close()

        def __enter__(self):
            return self
            
        def __exit__(self, exc_type, exc_val, exc_tb):
            self.close()


    with DDDApplication(datastore) as app:

        # Create a new aggregate.
        aggregate1 = app.create_example_aggregate()
        aggregate1.save()

        # Check it exists in the repository.
        assert aggregate1.id in app.aggregate_repository, aggregate1.id

        # Check the aggregate has zero entities.
        assert aggregate1.count_entities() == 0
        
        # Check the aggregate has zero entities.
        assert aggregate1.count_entities() == 0
        
        # Ask the aggregate to create an entity within itself.
        aggregate1.create_new_entity()

        # Check the aggregate has one entity.
        assert aggregate1.count_entities() == 1
        
        # Check the aggregate in the repo still has zero entities.
        assert app.aggregate_repository[aggregate1.id].count_entities() == 0
        
        # Call save().
        aggregate1.save()
        
        # Check the aggregate in the repo now has one entity.
        assert app.aggregate_repository[aggregate1.id].count_entities() == 1
        
        # Create two more entities within the aggregate.
        aggregate1.create_new_entity()
        aggregate1.create_new_entity()
        
        # Save both "entity created" events in one atomic transaction.
        aggregate1.save()
        
        # Check the aggregate in the repo now has three entities.
        assert app.aggregate_repository[aggregate1.id].count_entities() == 3
        
        # Discard the aggregate, but don't call save() yet.
        aggregate1.discard()
        
        # Check the aggregate still exists in the repo.
        assert aggregate1.id in app.aggregate_repository

        # Call save().
        aggregate1.save()

        # Check the aggregate no longer exists in the repo.
        assert aggregate1.id not in app.aggregate_repository

Design
------

The design of the library follows the layered architecture: interfaces,
application, domain, and infrastructure.

The domain layer contains a model of the supported domain, and services
that depend on that model. The infrastructure layer encapsulates the
infrastructural services required by the application.

The application is responsible for binding domain and infrastructure,
and has policies such as the persistence policy, which stores domain
events whenever they are published by the model.

The example application has an example respository, from which example
entities can be retrieved. It also has a factory method to register new
example entities. Each repository has an event player, which all share
an event store with the persistence policy. The persistence policy uses
the event store to store domain events, and the event players use the
event store to retrieve the stored events. The event players also share
with the model the mutator functions that are used to apply domain
events to an initial state.

Functionality such as mapping events to a database, or snapshotting, is
factored as strategy objects and injected into dependents by constructor
parameter. Application level encryption is a mapping option.

The sequenced item persistence model allows domain events to be stored
in wide variety of database services, and optionally makes use of any
optimistic concurrency controls the database system may afford.

.. figure:: https://www.lucidchart.com/publicSegments/view/098200e1-0ca9-4660-be7f-11f8f13a2163/image.png
   :alt: UML Class Diagram

   UML Class Diagram
