.. eventsourcing documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Wed Apr 12 16:45:44 2017.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

Welcome to eventsourcing's documentation!
=========================================

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Topics:

   topics/installing
   topics/tutorial
   topics/wsgi

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Reference:

   ref/modules

Event Sourcing in Python
------------------------

Overview
~~~~~~~~

What is event sourcing? One definition suggests the state of an event
sourced application is determined by a sequence of events. Another
definition has event sourcing as a persistence mechanism for domain
driven design. In any case, it is common for the state of a software
application to be distributed or partitioned across a set of entities or
aggregates in a domain model.

Therefore, this library provides mechanisms useful in event sourced
applications: a style for coding entity behaviours that emit events; and
a way for the events of an entity to be stored and replayed to obtain
the entities on demand.

This document provides instructions for installing the package,
highlights the main features of the library, includes a detailed example
of usage, describes the design of the software, and has some background
information about the project.

Features
~~~~~~~~

**Event store** — appends and retrieves domain events. The event store
uses a "sequenced item mapper" and an "active record strategy" to map
domain events to a database in ways that can be easily substituted.

**Persistence policy** — subscribes to receive published domain events.
Appends received domain events to an event store whenever a domain event
is published. Domain events are typically published by the methods of an
entity.

**Event player** — reconstitutes entities by replaying events,
optionally with snapshotting. An event player is used by an entity
repository to determine the state of an entity. The event player
retrieves domain events from the event store.

**Sequenced item mapper** — maps between domain events and "sequenced
items", the archetype persistence model used by the library to store
domain events. The library supports two different kinds of sequenced
item: items that are sequenced by an increasing series of integers; and
items that are sequenced in time. They support two different kinds of
domain events: events of versioned entities (e.g. an aggregate in domain
driven design), and unversioned timestamped events (e.g. entries in a
log).

**Active record strategy** — maps between "sequenced items" and database
records (ORM). Support can be added for a new database schema by
introducing a new active record strategy.

**Snapshotting** — avoids replaying an entire event stream to obtain the
state of an entity. A snapshot strategy is included which reuses the
capabilities of this library by implementing snapshots as time-sequenced
domain events. It can easily be substituted with one that uses a
dedicated table for snapshots.

**Application-level encryption** — encrypts and decrypts stored events,
using a cipher strategy passed as an option to the sequenced item
mapper. Can be used to encrypt some events, or all events, or not
applied at all (the default). Included is a cipher strategy which uses a
standard AES cipher, by default in CBC mode with 128 bit blocksize and a
16 byte encryption key, and which generates a unique 16 byte
initialization vector for each encryption. In this cipher strategy, data
is compressed before it is encrypted, which can mean application
performance is improved when encryption is enabled.

**Optimistic concurrency control** — can be used to ensure a distributed
or horizontally scaled application doesn't become inconsistent due to
concurrent method execution. Leverages any optimistic concurrency
controls in the database adapted by the stored event repository. For
example the Cassandra database, which implements the Paxos protocol, can
accomplish linearly-scalable distributed optimistic concurrency control,
guaranteeing sequential consistency of the events of an entity, across
concurent application threads. It is also possible to serialize calls to
the methods of an entity, but that is out of the scope of this package —
if you wish to do that, perhaps something like
`Zookeeper <https://zookeeper.apache.org/>`__ might help.

**Abstract base classes** — suggest how to structure an event sourced
application. The library has base classes for application objects,
domain entities, entity repositories, domain events of various types,
mapping strategies, snapshotting strategies, cipher strategies, test
cases, etc. They are well factored, relatively simple, and can be easily
extended for your own purposes. If you wanted to create a domain model
that is entirely stand-alone (recommended by purists for maximum
longevity), you might start by copying the library classes.

**Synchronous publish-subscribe mechanism** — propagates events from
publishers to subscribers. Stable and deterministic, with handlers
called in the order they are registered, and with which calls to publish
events do not return until all event subscribers have returned. In
general, subscribers are policies of the application, which may execute
further commands whenever a particular kind of event is received.
Publishers of domain events are typically methods of domain entities.

**Worked examples** — a simple worked example application (see below)
with an example entity class, with example domain events, an example
factory method, an example mutator function, and an example database
table.


Background
~~~~~~~~~~

Although the event sourcing patterns are each quite simple, and they can
be reproduced in code for each project, they do suggest cohesive
mechanisms, for example applying and publishing the events generated
within domain entities, storing and retrieving selections of the events
in a highly scalable manner, replaying the stored events for a
particular entity to obtain the current state, and projecting views of
the event stream that are persisted in other models. Quoting from the
"Cohesive Mechanism" pages in Eric Evan's Domain Driven Design book:

*"Therefore: Partition a conceptually COHESIVE MECHANISM into a separate
lightweight framework. Particularly watch for formalisms for
well-documented categories of algorithms. Expose the capabilities of the
framework with an INTENTION-REVEALING INTERFACE. Now the other elements
of the domain can focus on expressing the problem ("what"), delegating
the intricacies of the solution ("how") to the framework."*

The example usage (see above) introduces the "interface". The
"intricacies" can be found in the source code.

Inspiration:

-  Martin Fowler's article on event sourcing

   -  http://martinfowler.com/eaaDev/EventSourcing.html

-  Greg Young's discussions about event sourcing, and EventStore system

   -  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JHGkaShoyNs
   -  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LDW0QWie21s
   -  https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/u/9162958/CQRS/Events%20as%20a%20Storage%20Mechanism%20CQRS.pdf
   -  https://geteventstore.com/

-  Robert Smallshire's brilliant example code on Bitbucket

   -  https://bitbucket.org/sixty-north/d5-kanban-python/src

-  Various professional projects that called for this approach, across
   which I didn't want to rewrite the same things each time

See also:

-  'Evaluation of using NoSQL databases in an event sourcing system' by
   Johan Rothsberg

   -  http://www.diva-portal.se/smash/get/diva2:877307/FULLTEXT01.pdf

-  Wikipedia page on Object-relational impedance mismatch

   -  https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Object-relational\_impedance\_mismatch

Upgrade notes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Upgrading from 1.x to 2.x
`````````````````````````

Version 2 departs from version 1 by using sequenced items as the
persistence model (was stored events in version 1). This makes version 2
incompatible with version 1. However, with a little bit of code it would
be possible to rewrite all existing stored events from version 1 into
the version 2 sequenced items, since the attribute values are broadly
the same. If you need help with this, please get in touch.

Project
~~~~~~~

This project is hosted on GitHub.

-  https://github.com/johnbywater/eventsourcing

Questions, requests and any other issues can be registered here:

-  https://github.com/johnbywater/eventsourcing/issues


Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`
